We're gonna talk about some
State Management in React.
We'll kind of get into the weeds on some
ways that we have done State Management in
the past.
Some ways that we might consider doing
in the future and some patterns for
handling some of the trickier parts
of managing State and an application.
My name is Steve Kinney and
I am a Senior Principal Engineer and
frontend architect at Twilio.
So if you've ever gotten like a
programmatic text message when you're like
lift is coming or
something along those lines.
Somebody else who works in my company
made it possible for you to send that.
Or if you get an email when you lose an
eBay auction that you shouldn't have been
on anyway.
That email comes on this single
side where I used to work before we
become one big happy family.
We're used to work on a large email, like
marketing campaign email editor built in
React, which is really cool cuz you
get to use like modern technologies.
And then to build HTML emails
which use like tables and
have to render in Outlook 2003, which uses
Microsoft words HTML rendering engine.
So it's a lot of fun.
And so a lot of this comes
from the experience of kinda
building some of the more
complicated applications at Twilio.
That kind of inspire
some of the thoughts and
patterns around what we're
gonna talk about today.
So this is a course for talking about
how to keep your state actually
manageable when your application is no
longer a like little toy application.
Now, the irony is not
lost on me that in so
far that it takes a lot of time to
wrap your head around a big code base.
We will be using relatively small toy
applications to highlight the problems
that you'll see in a bigger application.
But I like to think of the more
as like the vignettes, right?
We'll kind of isolate
some of the problems,
solve them,
think about how we could refactor them.
Think about some of the tradeoffs that we
make as we go about doing some of these
different approaches.
Sometimes we'll solve a problem and
introduce a new problem.
And it will go solve that problem and
then reinvent the old problem, right?
At least, step one is understanding the
trade offs you're making rather than half
writing blog posts and just throwing
stuff in there and hoping for the best.
Not that I have ever done that.
It's happened.
In this course we're just
gonna be talking about React.
There are other frontend masters
courses on Redux and MobX.
I heard they're wonderful.
And I heard the instructor is hilarious.
You should totally watch them.
But that's not what we're
gonna talk about today.
What are we gonna talk about today?
Well, we're gonna talk about what
a state actually mean, right?
That seems important if we're gonna spend
this time together talking about how to
implement it and some of the trade offs.
We'll learn a little bit about
the inner workings of this.setState and
kind of based component state.
Then we'll look at class-based
components and the new React Hook API.
Hooks came out about a year ago.
So they're here to stay at this point.
They're not going anywhere.
Which gives us an interesting
position that we're in, right?
Like most of future code,
would probably written using Hooks.
But we can safely assume that all code
written prior to one year ago was
not using Hooks because they didn't exist.
And that is how time works.
So we'll talk a little bit about
the subtle differences and how things that
look like they behave the same do
not actually behave the same, right?
Cuz as you begin to refactor some of the
code, if you're not aware of those things.
It's like those little tiny bugs
that make you lose a morning and
consider not doing this awful
engineering thing anymore at all, and
maybe just starting a vegan
food truck instead.
So well, we'll kinda talk about
some of the reasons we refactor
some things that will
influence some of them.
Most of the course will be using Hooks.
But we will kind of make certain nods to
the differences between how things have
been from about 2013 to 2018 and
how things will be going forward.
We'll explore some of the APIs for
navigating around prop-drilling.
We'll also talk about
what prop-drilling is.
We'll look at reducers for
advanced state management.
We'll writing some of
our own custom hooks and
we'll do fun stuff like store
stuff in local storage.
We'll store some state
in the URL parameters.
Maybe we'll even get state from
a server using an API call,
cuz I've been told that's a thing
that people do in their applications.
So it seems important
that we should cover it.
But first, before we get into all of that,
let's talk a little bit about
understanding what State actually is.
So from a very high level,
the job of React is to take basically,
the state of your application,
the business logic, some amount of data.
And figure a bunch of rules to turn it
into some DOM nodes on the page, right?
And this is a little bit different
from how we did it ten years ago,
even where you might have had a page,
right?
And the markup might have included
all of the data on the page.
Or it might have included all of
the catalog items for the catalog.
And then if something user clicked on,
so you might have like read the DOM you
might have gone like .parent() .parent()
.parent() title to get the title, so
on and so forth.
And the actual UI held the state of our
application, we read it from there and
then manipulated based on that.
And that becomes really hard to maintain
as we all found out together as one
big industry as we just accrued so
much tech debt that it was crushing us.
So one of the things React brings to
the table is we can keep everything in
an object or an array or some set of
regular old JavaScript data structures.
Hand it to a bunch of rules about
how components should look and
what should happen when a user
interacts with them, right?
And as that state data changes,
our application should change.
And there's a bunch of fancy stuff,
this is obviously a giant
oversimplification, right?
There's stuff like the virtual DOM which
figures, okay, things have changed.
What is the least terrible to do that,
to update the DOM in the most
performant way possible?
There's a whole bunch of other
obvious cool stuff going on in React.
But the oversimplification is data,
rules, what shows under the page, right?
Events and stuff like that, right?
And so this kind of how we think about and
work with our data is
critically important, right?
Because a lot of times we
can start to do all these
fun performance optimizations and
stuff like that.
But a lot of this comes down to the basic
data structures in our application,
how we think about it,
how we work about it?
I would argue that when client side
applications become unmanageable,
is usually cuz managing the state has
become just incredibly difficult,
right, and tricky.
So by kind of thinking more in
advanced about these things.
And one of the things we do at Twilio is a
lot of times we have a blueprint process,
which is we write out how this system
is supposed to work before we implement
it, right?
So we can think through these kind
of externalities as we go forward.